.TH lrelease 1 "18 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" Copyright 2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file may be distributed and/or modified under the terms of the
.\" GNU General Public License version 2 as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation and appearing in the file LICENSE.GPL included in the
.\" packaging of this file.
.\"
.\" This file is provided AS IS with NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING THE
.\" WARRANTY OF DESIGN, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\" See http://www.trolltech.com/gpl/ for GPL licensing information.
.\"
.\" Contact info@trolltech.com if any conditions of this licensing are
.\" not clear to you.
.\"
.SH NAME
lrelease \- generate Qt message files from Qt Linguist translation files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lrelease
.RI "[ " options " ] " project-file
.br
.B lrelease
.RI "[ " options " ] " ts-files " [ -qm " qm-file " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page documents the
.B Qt Linguist Release
tool for the Qt GUI toolkit.
.B Lrelease
reads a qmake/tmake project file (.pro file) and converts the
translation files (.ts files) specified in it into Qt message files
(.qm files) used by the application to translate.
.PP
The .qm file format is a compact binary format that provides
extremely fast lookups for translations and that is used by Qt.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "-help"
Display the usage and exit.
.TP
.I "-nocompress"
Do not compress the .qm files.
.TP
.I "-verbose"
Explain what is being done.
.TP
.I "-version"
Display the version of
.B lrelease
and exit.
.SH USAGE
Here is an example .pro file that can be given to
.B lrelease:
.PP
.in +4
.nf
HEADERS         = funnydialog.h \\
                  wackywidget.h
SOURCES         = funnydialog.cpp \\
                  main.cpp \\
                  wackywidget.cpp
FORMS           = fancybox.ui
TRANSLATIONS    = gnomovision_dk.ts \\
                  gnomovision_fi.ts \\
                  gnomovision_no.ts \\
                  gnomovision_se.ts
.fi
.in -4
.PP
When running
.B lrelease
on this project file, the Qt message files gnomovision_dk.qm,
gnomovision_fi.qm, gnomovision_no.qm and gnomovision_se.qm will be
generated from gnomovision_dk.ts, gnomovision_fi.ts,
gnomovision_no.ts and gnomovision_se.ts, respectively.
.PP
.B Lrelease
can also be invoked with a list of .ts files to convert:
.PP
.in +4
.nf
lrelease gnomovision_*.ts
.fi
.in -4
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lupdate (1)
and
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/i18n.html
